Now for the drop to the ground I think what we should do is set up a pose right when he touches the
ground right at that moment.
And that looks like that's around 189 here.
So at that moment when this is touching the ground I mean make sure that is zeroed out.
So the why is zeroed out there.
At that moment we should have a pose where the limbs are kind of dragging or lagging behind.
What I think I want to do is first of all for the legs I'm going to rotate this forward.
Now I don't know if they are going to rotate it here.
Like so and get these you go 3:5 and get these so it's just barely on the ground here.
Like so.
And the arm here.
I'm going to have come up and rotate that hand up like that.
So as if the arms are dragging and following the weight of the body
something like that may be too much but we'll give it a try.
They're looking a little too similar to bring one down.
All right.
So let's see if we drag this back up.
Let me play this and see how this works.
We can almost push it a little more
and have these come up a little higher I think.
All right let's try that.
I feel like these arms need to happen a little quicker.
Maybe these arms need to hold until the absolute point when he drops so I'm going to duplicate these
until that point.
See how that works.
Now the elbows are kind of floating in.
I move the elbows without establishing a stopping point.
So let's see if I can figure that out.
So you see the elbows are back here and they keep on moving because I didn't plant an anchor key frame
here so I'll select these two and duplicate them and move them forward to that point.
So that should anchor those until he drops
the feet I think need an anchor until he drops as well.
So I've got here.
And here I need to duplicate these and move them to the point when he drops this and that's
like so
let's try this.
All right.
I'm going to try this I'm going to go with this for now and move on to the point where he drops down
onto the ground and the weight of the body has to carry through and bend his knees down to the ground.
So now that were to the point where the master control is zeroed out on the on the ground we're going
to leave that there and we're going to continue the motion through this control through the root control.
So I need to go back up and find that it doesn't look like I've cut it yet so I'm going to go ahead
and keep it here.
With location rotation and scale so that root bone is going to be keyed at that point.
Now I should probably
I'm going to go ahead and duplicate it.
You know I'm going to go back to frame one and I'm going to duplicate this key frame and take it all
the way back to frame one just so I have it there.
OK.
So I wanted to just anchor that all the way through.
So now at that point when he hits the ground I need to continue with this movement.
So a couple of things need to happen now.
His feet need to plant on the ground.
Do I have keyframes here yet.
It looks like I've got keyframes here for the feet.
Good.
Looks like I don't have one for this.
Need control.
Let me just get this over here.
And this knee control as well.
All right.
From this point now he needs to drop.
So where is the point that at the lowest point of his drop.
So if I play it and he drops froom it's kind of hard to tell but I'm going to begin at frame 200 here
for the drop.
Now I'm going to extend this out to 50 let's say and I'm going to call 200 the point where he's at its
lowest point.
So his hands will drop the body will drop down the feet will be planted.
Let's go ahead and see if we can get a good pose down for that.
So I'm going to bring this down like this.
And now I want to plant these on the ground.
So what I can do is I could actually press alt G and alt R and that will put that on the ground and
I'll do the same for this at least.
I'll go ahead and do g and all our
So those will plant on the ground.
I think I want to rotate those out a bit
let's just see about that
little bit too slow there.
How about let's see.
So we don't want that to stop.
So if we can move those Any closer and have it work any better.
I'm going to bring this up to 150 here.
Try that
all right a couple of things.
It looks like this foot should really plant back farther.
This foot should be back.
Ron one
I'm going to take a look at that root curve.
Here's the why that's happening.
And if you see hear me expand this out a bit with control middle mouse button and you can see that that
it's going to slow down here and then speed up again.
So when it's flat like this it's it's going to be moving down slowly and when it's angled it's going
to be moving down quickly.
So I think the problem is that we've got this curve easing in.
So I need to take this and free the handles and maybe grab that handle and take it down like this.
Let's try this
a little better.
That foot's not planting real quickly.
Let's move that back like that
so I'm going to take these two now and move them forward here like that.
See how that works.
Getting there.
I kind of want this to move down a little quicker.
So I'm going to split this with the V key and free and choose that handle and I want this to go a little
bit faster.
All right let's take a look at it in perspective view from the camera point of view here just to see
where we are so far to go back to the beginning and let's just see how it looks.
I'll even go ahead and turn on the environment.
And we go so he comes down.
He moves forward.
It's that place and then drops.
All right.
It's not perfect by any means in fact I'm going to do some tweaking here before the next video.
But what I want to do is in the next video get his final pose set up once he's in place on the ground
and then we can work on his final movements as he turns and looks around the room.